---
layout: post
title: "You should avoid Meetup.com"
date: 2022-11-24 10:08:27
categories: [post]
tags: []
summary: "Please avoid Meetup.com. You can do better on your own"
---

A few years ago I decided to spend some of my time organizing a Meetup about
cloud computing in Turin, Italy. I got support from the Cloud Native Computing
Foundation to get a paid account to Meetup.com, food and drinks. I organized
various events in Turin and Milan as well. We had a good time and I worked with
different companies to help them share what they are building or passionate
about.

I work remotely and it was for me the best way to connect with other people in
my area working on similar challenges. The event was in English because a video
maker was there recording and mounting videos to share on the CNCF blog, or
with the companies or communities the speaker was involved with.

COVID-19 changed our daily routine drastically as you know and I embraced
virtual events as many others did. We gained good popularity and we reached 800
people registered to our meetup group, but we have missed the locality part of
all of this . In the meantime I decided to take a break as an active organizer,
leaving my spot to another person who supported me a lot during the day to day
operations. I left my role as CNCF Ambassador and in the meantime the CNCF
decided to move all those communities out from Meetup.com to their internal
platform.

I don’t want to comment on their internal platform, the migration was left to
the organizer, at some point we were maintaining events on both platforms
having the end of 2022 as the deadline to close the Meetup.com group.

In the meantime I tried to export the people who trusted me as organizer to
import them elsewhere but the attendees belong to Meetup.com and there is not
much you can do about it, Meetup.com locks you in.

What about deleting a Meetup group? Well, apparently you can remove all the
organizers and leave it in a limbo until Meetup.com removes it, or until
somebody else claims to be the new organizer.

Really! You work a couple of years to build a group of people who trust you,
your way of dealing with their time and when you decide that it is time to move
on the best Meetup offers is to leave those people on their own. Obviously just
as it happens with DNS the last day before termination somebody else claimed to
be the new organizer and took over the meetup group to share their own event.
Luckily it was a person I collaborated with in the past and I was able to
become the organizer again. It took me 2 hours to do the right things. I had to
kick out of the meetup group all 800 members one by one leaving an empty group
that nobody has any reason to claim.

It is my responsibility as organizer to take care of what happens to the people
who trusted me, and I think leaving them on their own to the first person that
finds itself in the right place, at the right time is wrong and you should not
trust a platform forcing this behavior.

Avoid Meetup.com, you can do better! Setup a mailing list, build a static
website on GitHub.com, write a few lines of whatever language you want to learn
and expose an HTTP server.

I like to share what I do and to experiment. In the last 10 years I organized
meetups, I tried to self-publish a book, I wrote on my blog and many of you
trusted me, leaving their emails to me and sharing their own time. The only
reasonable thing I can do is to clean up after myself when I am done. A few
years ago when I realized that the book I was trying to write didn’t make much
sense I deleted the 2000 people who registered to receive updates about it
because it is the right thing to do. If you find yourself in a similar
situation do the right thing, cleanup after yourself.
