---
layout: post
title:  "A bunch of RSS feed probably the first round of many"
date: 2024-04-27 06:10:10
categories: [post]
tags: [linkerd, oss]
summary: "I am building my own internet again and it is all made of RSS feeds today a few that I am particulary enjoying following those days"
---

Hey! It has been a while, and I feel sorry for that. I needed a break because
life for me spans in between a desk and a screen, a garden, we have built a
house that takes a lot of my time and joy and now we got a baby!

Ludovica is two and an half old now, almost three months old and she is an
awesome and lovely challenge!

This is not gonna be a technical or complex article because I do not have the
energy for that but since I miss you all this is better than nothing and I hope
it will give me the energy to keep writing because a few months ago I deployed
a sweet and old fashion web based RSS reader and I started building my internet
again! I need to admit it gave me good vibes and energies.

I feel back in control after all the Twitter implosion and I think you should do the same.

I decided to use [Tiny Tiny RSS](https://tt-rss.org/) in short tt-rss because
it is in PHP, with just a few JavaScript well documented and easy to deploy
piece of cake. Just as the internet that I felt in love with.

At the beginning I installed it locally on my desk pointing my `/etc/hosts` to
it and then I moved it to one of the [Intel
NUC](https://gianarb.it/blog/homelab-diy-bmc-intel-nuc) I have laying around
here.

I took the habit three times a week to select five articles to read and so far
it is going great. It is not something that I forced myself to do. No pomodoro
time or other weird self building strategy it just happened to be a good
cadence for myself now. Don't set goals, enjoy reading on your own without
people liking a post, or reacting with an emoji or a send cold comments about
something they didn't even open.

---

As I promise here six of the website I am enjoying right now (obviously tech
related), bonus point an article for each that got my attention.

## Vicki Boykis

[Vicki](https://vickiboykis.com/) is a machine learning engineer at Mozilla and
you know those days AI is kind of hot! I am also into the GenAI space but not
all as math expert. I do API, I move data around, operations and things like
that. So I am trying to learn a bit more about this industry that today looks
like a pile of VC money moving burning the electric power all the all heart.

Vicki is awesome and I like the style and cadence of its writing moving from
the practical vision they have for today internet ["How I search in
2024"](https://vickiboykis.com/2024/04/25/how-i-search-in-2024/) down to the
history and evolution of operations in AI
[https://vickiboykis.com/2024/01/15/whats-new-with-ml-in-production/](https://vickiboykis.com/2024/01/15/whats-new-with-ml-in-production/).

## Drew DeVault

I doubt that [Drew DeVault](https://drewdevault.com/) needs any sort of
presentation. Free Software Ambassador and I enjoy following his journey with
his product and projects. A person with strong opinions all in written format.

["AI crap"](https://drewdevault.com/2023/08/29/2023-08-29-AI-crap.html) is
beats me continuously since I turned to be an insider in this industry and I
love how he makes what for me are impossible and complex tasks to look
approachable like writing a shell in a programming language he is developing
["The rc shell and its excellent handling of whitespace"](https://drewdevault.com/2023/07/31/The-rc-shell-and-whitespace.html)

## Mikodura

Not only person blog, I also have a category full of company tech blogs that I
am subscribed to and since I started to hack on hardware and I turned to be a
little bit of a "maker" I discovered
[Mikodura](https://www.midokura.com/blog/). Their blog is technically and well
written, it is forth following. Can't say the same for companies like
Cloudflare for example, their cadence can't fit with my reading habit (but I am
subscribed to their feed as well, it is muted so I can get to it at my own
time)

## Zed

The new cool editor in town. Don't judge me too quickly, I am not like
[Thorsten](https://registerspill.thorstenball.com/p/from-vim-to-zed) or
[ThePrimeagen](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZRnWmNdf5IE), I still love VIM
and I am not gonna betray it. VIM fully locked me down forever probably.

I subscribed to their blog recently and I enjoyed learning a bit more about
data structured that empower editors, they look so foundational that you tend
to forget about how technically complex they needs to be ["Zed Decoded: Rope & SumTree"](https://zed.dev/blog/zed-decoded-rope-sumtree).

Be aware that you will get new Zed features straight to your feed and you may
be tempted to leave SublimeText to Zed.

## Daniel Stenberg

The cURL guy! [Daniel Stenberg](https://daniel.haxx.se/blog/) personal journey
to ["Six Billion docker
pull](https://daniel.haxx.se/blog/2024/04/24/six-billion-docker-pulls/) but the
reality is that we all love the blogpost where he shares random emails he gets
from his blog ["EMAILS I RECEIVED, THE
COLLECTION"](https://daniel.haxx.se/blog/2024/01/12/emails-i-received-the-collection/).

## Surfing Complexity

[Surfing Complexity](https://surfingcomplexity.blog/) knows as Lorin Hochstein
and friends shares their journey in the tech bubble. Their last article ["The
problem with invariants is that they change over
time"](https://surfingcomplexity.blog/2024/03/26/the-problem-with-invariants-is-that-they-change-over-time/)
is a good one but this blog is a long running one, get lost in the archive and
tell me if you find something I should look at!

---

That's it for today, let me know if you want to get more links for me and ping
the people I quoted here to say hello! Bloggers need support!
