---
layout: post
title:  "Static Sites limited my ability to have fun"
date:   2024-10-09 06:08:27
categories: [post]
tags: []
summary: "This is my reaction to 'The Static Site Paradox' from Loris Cro and how I think services like GitHub Pages killed my enthusiasm for this field"
changefreq: monthly
---

This blog post is a reaction to [The Static Site Paradox
](https://kristoff.it/blog/static-site-paradox/) from [Loris Cro](https://kristoff.it/)

Loris hilights the paradox where people with completence in software end up
with solutions that are cheaper and easier to maintain compared with people
without such skills that end up being locked into Wordpress, webservers,
caching layers, backends and so on. Its intuition is that it should be other way around.

It is a good prospective but I want to expand it a little bit. I do gardening
and I bought a lawn mower this year. My provider is a small one that does a lot
of repairs, it is not a shop, they fix tools then they end up salling them as
well.

I like their approach because they do not start from fancy and new tools, easy
to use, but impossible to repair, if you share their value you end up with a
tool that is basic, solid and easy and cheap to repair, even by yourself. I am
not an expert when it comes to engines, carburetors, gas and oils but I learned
that at some point carburetors may get dirty and if you clean the nozzle you
are back in full shape. Sometime I did it by myself.

Same when I visited the house of my electrician, or the reason why mechanics
often pick cars that are strong and easy to repair vs models that are made of
chips they can't fix.

Experts know the cost of maintenance and they can optimize for that. I also
know electricians who like domitics and IoT so they end up with expensive gear
and get locked to sellers that makes them pay for every update. That's fine as
well, people usually have both personality, context is the driver.

I like to eat healthy and well cooked food that I can't grow by my own and I do
not have the skill to put together. Even if I grow my own things.

Users with no experince with software can't optimize for technical simplicity.
User experience, cost optimization (agency that can update worpdress are
probably cheaper than agency doing custom static site because of the
economy of scale), avoid vendor lock in and so on.

Something else that this article made me to realize is that I had a lot more
fun and the possibility to experiment with something like Wordpress compared
with something like GitHub Pages or a static site.

Not because I think Wordpress or PHP is superior, I think serving static pages
is the solution for the web. It is the most friendly to use, green... Even with
a CMS or a backend the end goal should be to serve static content as ealry as
possible, compiling and caching. It can be in your FS as a static site does or
in Redis, that's not the point for me.

What I realized killed my enthusiasm for experimenting, building, learning in
such context is in fact GitHub Pages or similar solutions. Because they made my
life too easy and I got lazy.

Recently I decided to split my blog into a second one dedicated to my
experience as developer, devops and so on, where I am trying to write on
schedule, it is not doing as well as I would like so I am not sure for how long
I will have the energy to go with that, do you want to help? please share it
[shippingbytes.com](https://shippingbytes.com) if you like what I write. But I
deiced to build it with WordPress, in a VPC, with a low number of plugins (only
one) a custom theme and so on.

Having a VPC justifyed a lot more experimentation, I am collaborating with a
friend to develop a product for driving school I run a few other services that
ok are not that useful and I can leave without but is that the point?

I realized that easy solution doze off my passion and my energy so do not feel
stupid if you pay a few beers a month for serving yourself a static site if you
can affort that. If you feel alone it is because you are in the wrong bubble
and I can help with that!
