---
layout: post
title:  "One month into shippingbytes"
date:   2024-07-04 06:08:27
categories: [post]
tags: []
summary: "A little update about my first month writing for shippingbytes. My new blog related to coding and programming"
changefreq: monthly
---

[shippingbytes.com](https://shippingbytes.com/) is the new place where I
fulfill my desire to be a [content creator](/blog/content-creator-wanna-be).

I started my blog many years ago. Thank you to
[webarchive](https://web.archive.org/web/20100524152800/http://www.gianarb.it/joomla)
we can go back to 2010, the first snapshot it has about my website.

It was a Joomla installation where I was not writing about coding or
programming, mainly because I was not a programmer back then. 24th May 2010 I
was 17 years old mainly blogging about technology I was at the end high school
learning how to code and almost ready to get my first job in programming!

This to say that writing and blogging got a special place in my life. I like to
do it but gianarb.it is my special place and this theme forced me to avoiding
writing about many things that didn't fit in this place. Finally I decided
to build my place to write about coding, devops, programming and so on.

Social network overall are in a bad spot in my opinion so I decided to setup it
as a newsletter, if you want you can subscribe and you get the article straight
to your inbox from an email address that I read and that I reply to!

Similarly to a mailing list but you are limited to speak with me, sorry! I am
happy to discuss about what I write so let's connect!

I decided to get into this new adventure writing daily for a couple of days
because we know how important it is to write on a schedule. So I decided to
remove some rust from my writing skills. I knew it was too much and too
ambitious but I managed to do it for 3 weeks. A small article a day that I
shared across various channels: Reddis, HackerNews, Mastodon, Twitter and so
on.

Just a few vanity numbers in 3 weeks I got 7k pageview. Probably the first
month will be the best month for this metric for a good while.

At the end of this 3 weeks I changed the schedule to two articles a week
because it was not sustainable for me and I want to spend a bit more time on
each post to get the deep enough. I will keep monitoring the queue of articles
to understand if this is actually a better schedule or if I need to change it
again.

Hungry of gaining visibility and to build a little community I shared my daily
posts on social media, form some of them I got really nice vibes from others,
not that much. So I decided to stop sharing on Reddit for now because it is not
as friendly as I would like. I will keep HN because worst case they don't get
much interest but when you manage to get some traction you actually receive a
lot more traffic, it is just what I am looking for. A platform that amplify
when I writing something that people find interesting and that stay radio
silent if not. Reddit in comparison can turn quickly into a rude collection of
people not capable of empathizing with different opinions and it does not bring
back that much.

I am not sure about the numbers I am looking at but ideally I hope to stop
sharing what I am writing on my own because I am limited to the people I can
reach.

Good for me I have some friends who reach out and get some help from! First one
Luciano that owns a great newsletter
[FullStackBullettin](https://mailchi.mp/fullstackbulletin/379-the-last-6-decades-of-ai-and-what-comes-next)
and features one of my articles.

That said I have the next month almost figured out and if you want me to write
about something specific let me know!
