---
layout: post
title:  "Content creator wanna-be"
date:   2024-06-03 06:08:27
categories: [post]
tags: []
summary: "I am wondering I finally figured out how to use shippingbytes.com . I
often tried to be a content creator by night but I can't stick to it, as I can
stick with anything. I am not sure if this time will be nay different but let's
try."
changefreq: monthly
---

I am where I am because of open source. Twelve years ago when I started my
first full time job position I didn't know much. I got hired as solo developer
for an internal CMS for a laboratory. An application on top of Postgres to
register and manage tools.

Anyway this is not the point, I didn't know much, after a few days writing
spaghetti code I realized that I was not going anywhere so I opened IRC, I
joined the PHP channel and I started asking questions. Somebody picked them up
and I realized that near my place we had a PHP Meetup where I finally found
somebody with a proper team who hired me, my contract ended and I joined a team.

TLDR open source is what made me the developer I am, not because I write the
tip of the iceberg, not because my code seats for 99% of open source code
written by somebody else but because of the community I was surrounded since
day one.

I already had a blog, 12 years ago I was 19 and my blog was mainly about tech
news because I was not a developer, I didn't have much to share of my own.

But blogging turned to be crucial for my career as a developer, a little bit as
giveback and also because I need to [be
findable](https://registerspill.thorstenball.com/p/be-findable). I live in a
country where salary don't stay up to date with inflation, figuring my way out
to it makes a difference.

All of this to say that I enjoy writing tutorials or lesson learned about
operations, development, monitoring but not here, on my personal diary because
I don't think they belong to here. I end up not writing them, not giving back
to the community I belong to.

Also internet is a lot different compared to 12-15 years ago and I feel I need
to prepare for something new.

I can't stop thinking about what Chris Ferdinand is doing with
[GoMakeThings](https://gomakethings.com/), I am not a frontend eng and to be
host I didn't find an area or a technology that I felt in love with like
frontend looks for Chris (I hope you will find somebody that will look at you
like Chris writes about frontend!), but I like to read what he writes, I am not
sure consultancy will be for me but I like the place he developed for itself
and I feel like it is time for me to figure out where to share what I learn
about delivery, cloud, containers, CI and so on. Things that don't fit to this blog.

I have [shippingbytes.com](http://shippingbytes.com) sitting around for a while
and I am thinking about using it for this purpose, in a world where GenAI
steals from knowledge owner to serve anonymous answers  I am thinking about
starting a my content creation journey.

I am not good at all when it comes to timing. This is why I need your support,
your support and empathy.

I also want to experiment with something that is not a static site generator
because content creators needs their own tools. First version of this blog was
Joomla, ShippingBytes right now runs locally as custom theme for Wordpress.

I know you didn't expect that but what if wysiwyg will spark joy? And I know
ShippingBytes will have a newsletter, a database will be useful anyway, static
site is not enough.
