---
layout: post
title:  "Hey it's been a while"
date:   2025-01-13 06:08:27
categories: [post]
tags: []
summary: "Classic 2024, 2025 new year post"
changefreq: monthly
---

Ciao! I just want to let you know that I am all good! The last year of writing
and working it is hard to define.

I started [shippingbytes](https://shippingbytes.com) with an idea but I didn't
like it so I am not writing that much there, I may even close it and call it a
failing success because I learned that I actually don't like to write about
tech per se that much.

I thought that such contents were not a good fit in here but in reality they
don't feet there even because they are not for me. If I will end up learning
something fun I will write about it here as I usually do, otherwise I am gonna
try to embrace the fact that is good to not having much to say. It is perfectly
fine and I won't go away only because I don't have anything to share on bsky!

It has been a year of collaborations with friends from my own town with their
own ideas. A local entrepreneurs that wants to digitalize their driving
schools, a friend of mine that does personal training for professional athletes
that is trying to figure out a digital product that fits their needs.
Collaborating with people around self care sounds like a good idea since I go
for 33 this year and Ludovica may start walking soon! I need to be at my best!

I am doing this because I like their mindset, I am looking for the natural
evolution of a developer with almost 15 years of experience. My soft skills are
100% more valuable and luckily way better than my coding skills and I want to see
what's next. I see those opportunities as an investments, I did 1 year of
developement for free to get to a product that Today will go live with first 10
students and most likely will turn in its own company. No startup, no VCs, a
person with a business that wants to try something new in its area.

The work with the professional athletes is at the beginning, I am not sure how
it will go and if will jump onboad. I don't think I have the bandwith to do
development but it is hard to justify myself outside of an editor! :)

What else? I started to invest a small amount of EUROs in a few ETF with the
same spirit of "I feel like I need to try something new and diversify". I think
that the stock market does not represent the real market and it is a job per
se, but I am lucky enough to save a good amount of money at the end of the
month and I feel ok with the strategy I adopted so far. I don't have enough
money do to what I think is more valuable and better express my values that is
supporting people to do good things. I am trying to do it with my time but it
does not scale as I want as long as it keeps me in front of my desktop, so this
is a first step to learn something new. Anyway, I am mixing things together.

This is the mood this website will turn to be. Random thoughts, something
technical.

My primary full time job is going as it should be, we are still here! If you
don't know I joined as first eng a startup doing generative ai for tabular data
two years ago, already! The genai market is still something that does not make
me happy but it is still too early in my opinion, and I am trying to be
patient. I joined with my old manager at InfluxData, the worklife balance is
something that I won't find elsewhere. We have enough money in the bank to
experiement and build something that we hope will work in an environment that
has a lot to say and that makes me feel stable in this crazy job market. Join
#lowcarbonsoftware on liberachat if you want to chat about how all of this is
devastating the planed because I am with you.

What about 2025?! Feel relevant in the current job market in a way that better
feet my current mood and situation. A few years ago it meant going to
conferences at least once a month to share what I was doing, writing posts,
being an ambassador for foundations and things like that. Not doing all of this
sound scary if I look at how useful all of that was to be where I am today, but
I am not the same person!

Today I don't really know what it means, but it is easier to define things when
you look at them from far away and today I am all hands into my life! [Please
reach out to say hello my good old friend](mailto:ciao@gianarb.it)!
