---
layout: post
title:  "Keep in mind your susteinability"
date:   2025-10-03 06:08:27
categories: [post]
tags: [susteinability, gardening]
summary: "A story about susteinability that starts from gardening and ends with a call to action to find a moral for it"
changefreq: monthly
---

Five years ago we bought our current house.

It was a solid but old house from the 60s, we had to remodule a few things
inside because back then the rooms where many and tiny.

Plumbing, elecricity, heating, windows, floors we ripped all out, replacing it
with modern solutions. Two years and half of hard work from various people.

The first thing we did as soon as we bought the house was gardening. We were
still leaving with our parents, making the plan about how to do the renovation
but vegetables were already planted. It feels crazy but yep. I think this is
how excitment and passion feels.

I always try to keep the impact of myself in the planet at minimum. Minumum
plastic, watering just enough and in the most efficient possible. For example
even if I had access near the garden to the the water system we use in house,
clean and public water from the city provider I repurposed and old tank and I
bought a used pump to get water from a small river near by. 

![](/img/gianluca-spicy.jpg)

The river and the pump is unsuitable for the purpose. The rider is not deep
enough, there is not enough water and the pump is deeply unconfortable. You
need to feel it with water, put the hose correctly otherwise it won't suck
enough water and you will need to do the filling process again.

All of this to say that I was spending 30 minutes if my life every two, three
weeks trying to fill the tank to end soacked in water.

After two years Ludovica arrived and I got even fewest time to play with a
garden but we knew it was important, this is when I realized that I had to
accept the compromise of being a bit less green, relying sometime to public
water instead of getting to stressed, tired and burned out for a few liters.

I know every liter counts but you should keep track of the big picture. A
concious shortcut today that keeps you running is the best you can do to
yourself. I try to keep the consumption under control, I don't waste it I still
get water from the river the majority of the time but for the time I can't I am
glad I can relay on pressure from the city water system.

Next year we'll renovate the main entrace of the house, we will dig outside and
as part of that we will install a big tank to collect water from the roof and
from there I will have another option I can relay on not only to water the
plans (now I have some fruit trees and the terrace is full of plants and
flowers as well) but also to wash cars and other things.

The big picture is always the same, keep a low impact and maxime the resources
we have but sustainablity is important not only when it comes to the planet but
also to yourself, and it is easy to forget. Do your best, love yourself it is a
great starting point.

I am sure there is a moral in this story and something that applies to software
as well but tonight I will leave the connection to you.
